Previously on The Affair...
You were a good dad...
And Mom was a great mom
and-and we were happy.
- Hello. friend.
Or at least I thought we were.
Do you know why I married you?
I thought you were safe.
I knew you would never
cheat. you wouldn't leave.
and we would have a nice life.
It's so hard. living up to your
goddamn standards all the time.
Dad. what the fuck?
I thought that he'd turned
a corner or something.
After everything he's
already put us through.
Sometimes with toxic people.
you have to make a clean break.
"Over the course of my
reporting on Solloway.
six women. three of whom
wish to remain anonymous..."
What?
Is that news?
That was just a
brushfire near the Getty.
How did that reporter
know how to find Eden?
Because you told her?
I'm not the bad guy here.
Noah's name is off
the movie. his movie.
Because that's what you wanted.
This movie is my baby.
All of this is my fault.
Your dad didn't
do anything wrong.
Why are you still defending him?
Because he's your father
and you guys need your father.
Don't say that. This isn't about
us. This has never been about us.
- What is it about?
- You could never let him go.
♪ I was screaming
into the canyon ♪
♪ At the moment of my death ♪
♪ The echo I created ♪
♪ Outlasted my last breath ♪
♪ My voice. it made
an avalanche ♪
♪ And buried a
man I never knew ♪
♪ And when he died.
his widowed bride ♪
♪ Met your daddy
and they made you ♪
♪ I have only one thing to do ♪
♪ And that's be the
wave that I am And then ♪
♪ Sink back into the ocean ♪
♪ I have only one thing to do ♪
♪ And that's be the
wave that I am And then ♪
♪ Sink back into the ocean ♪
♪ I have only one thing to do ♪
♪ And that's be the
wave that I am And then ♪
♪ Sink back into the ocean
Sink back into the ocean ♪
♪ Sink back into the o... ♪
♪ Sink back into the ocean ♪
You're a narcissist.
You're a vampire.
- You have no soul.
- Whitney.
You burn through people. and
when you're done using them.
you just leave them
on the side of the road.
All right. honey. calm down.
Alison probably fucking killed
herself because of what you did to her.
- Stop it!
- And you?
You can't survive without him. can
you? You're a codependent nightmare.
- That's enough. That's enough!
- I fucking hate you both.
You deserve each other!
Is it true. what she
said about the hot tub?
I didn't know it was her. I...
I...
I'm gonna go talk to her.
- I'm gonna leave...
- No. you can't fucking leave.
Okay? You can't run away.
Because we have to fix this.
So I'm gonna go talk to
her and don't go anywhere.
Look. I know you're upset.
We're all upset.
It's been a terrible.
terrible day. but...
your dad...
Look. he's made mistakes.
Nobody knows
that better than I do.
But he's not a bad man.
I mean. don't you think he's
being punished enough right now?
By everybody?
By the world?
And. Whitney. I don't
think this is the time to fight.
We need to support each other.
We're family.
What did you just say?
We're the only family
you have. Whitney.
We are not a fucking family.
And I'm tired of
pretending like we are.
You're holding onto a myth.
Okay. I know. You're upset.
Yes. I'm upset. I'm very upset.
But I'm not crazy.
It's obviously more
important to you
to hold on to a fantasy
of being a perfect mom.
of being the one who
held us all together
than it is for you to admit that this
whole thing is a fucking charade.
Dad only cares about himself
and you only care about Dad.
- That is not true.
- Yes. it is.
Will you please
come back outside
and just talk to us?
I mean. you're getting
married in three weeks.
How are we gonna do that if
you're not even talking to us?
I mean. how is he gonna
walk you down the aisle?
He's not.
What?
He's not gonna walk me down the aisle
because he's not coming to my wedding.
Of course he's invited
to your wedding.
He's your father.
You know. he made you. He and I.
We made you. You
wouldn't be here without us.
- You don't get it.
- I do get it.
I just think you're being kind
of short-sighted right now.
and actually
pretty fucking cruel.
You know. all I want for myself
in life is not to end up like you.
Jesus. Fucking Noah.
Where's Dad?
He had to go take care of stuff.
- Where's Whitney?
- She's in the bedroom.
What now?
Well. I'm starving. Wonder
if Whitney's got any food.
Mom. what now?
You're gonna have to
just give me a minute.
Okay. honey? Please.
Hi. it's Noah. Leave a message.
Mrs. Solloway?
Uh. Butler. Call me Mrs. Butl...
No. just call me Helen.
Uh. I'm sorry to ask this at what
I know is a very stressful time.
but might you have any idea
where Whitney's birth certificate is?
Her birth... What?
Yeah. we need it to
get our marriage license.
Oh. um...
Yeah. I'm sure I have it
somewhere. I can get it.
That would be great.
We actually are about
to miss the deadline.
and if we don't have that. I'll miss
the deadline for my green card.
Shit.
- What?
- It's not at my house.
- It's at Noah's house.
- Why?
Because that's what happens
when you get divorced. Whitney.
You split up the passports
and the birth certificates.
- Why?
- So neither one of us will.
I don't know. flee the
country with all of you guys.
I took Martin and Stacey's. your
dad took yours and Whitney's.
Why would you give mine to Dad?
Oh. clearly. because I
was trying to traumatize you.
I mean. what the fuck. Whitney?
We just divided 'em up randomly.
You know what?
Uh. I'm just gonna go get it.
- Myself.
- Wait. are you leaving?
Yeah. You're gonna
be okay. sweetheart.
Don't worry about
it. Your sister is here.
All right? She can take
care of you for a little while.
I think it would be good for her
to be responsible for somebody
besides herself for a change.
See what it's like.
Voluntary evacuations
are underway
for Topanga Canyon
and surrounding areas.
The fire continues to grow
with zero percent containment.
Fire officials are suggesting
anyone living in the area
to make preparations
to evacuate.
More than 200 firefighters
are already involved in fighting
the blaze. with more on the...
Noah?
Noah.
Noah. wake up.
Come on. Noah.
How do you not know where it is?
It should be in here.
This is where I keep
most of my important stuff.
It's not there. I don't know
where the fuck it went.
Clearly.
Helen. it's not in
with my spoons.
Well. who knows? It
could be anywhere. right?
- Could you stop doing that?
- Why? I'm sorry. is it bothering you?
- Do you have a hangover?
- Stop that! Stop it!
How the fuck did you not
know it was her in the hot tub?
What are you really asking?
Because I find it highly
improbable you could get that close
to your own daughter
and not recognize her.
Oh. so you're saying
that I did recognize her?
And I went after her?
Helen?
- No.
- Are you sure?
- 'Cause if that's what you really think...
- I don't. I don't.
So you're just trying to make me
feel like a complete shit for no reason?
No. no. not for no
reason! There's a reason.
Years ago. you traumatized our daughter
and you never even fucking mentioned it!
And at this point.
Noah. I don't know
if you're stupid. or evil.
or crazy. or all three.
But you really should definitely
feel like a complete shit.
- I do!
- Good!
What was she even
doing at that party. Helen?
- Oh. my God.
- She was in high school.
What was she
doing out in Montauk
- by herself. in a fucking hurricane?
- Are you trying to say this is my fault?
Oh. no. of course not.
Nothing's ever your fault.
Oh. please. You are incredible.
I am so fucking tired
of you lecturing me
with your self-important.
fucking self-righteous.
holier-than-thou...
You don't think I fucking
hate myself for that night?
That was the worst
night of my life...
- Oh. my God. Your life?
- Yes!
My life. My fucking life!
I lost my daughter that night.
You don't think I know that?
You don't think I've been trying
ever since to try and make it up to her?
I would do anything. anything
to undo what happened.
And finally. finally. last
week in Montauk. I...
preparing for the
wedding. we had fun and...
We were father
and daughter again.
If I could just give her that.
If I can just give her a good
wedding with us all there together
- having fun. then...
- She doesn't want you there.
What do you mean?
I mean. you're not
invited to the wedding.
What? She said that?
Yeah.
Jesus Christ.
Oh. wow.
What's this? "Dear...
Dear. Helen..."
That's the letter I wrote to you
the night before our wedding.
Why do you have it?
'Cause I found it in the trash in
your parents' guest room the next day
and so I fished
it out and kept it.
What does it say?
"Dear Helen.
I can't believe tomorrow
is our wedding day.
I love you so much.
You're the best thing
that ever happened to me.
I know we've had some hard times.
but I'm so glad we've stuck it out."
"I love what we have
and are building together.
and I think you and
I are worth the effort.
I have countless
superlatives for you.
but at the risk of belaboring.
I think you're beautiful..."
Uh... "Sexy. brilliant.
kind. tough. strong.
brave. gentle. creative.
funny. thoughtful."
"You're a really good person.
but mostly you're the person
whom I'm most excited
to see every day.
I'm so grateful you're
gonna be my wife.
Love. Noah."
Did you think I threw that away?
I didn't know.
Well. I wouldn't have. I just...
I probably just put it
somewhere. I'm so careless.
You used to write me
letters like this all the time.
Well. I wanted to be a writer.
Yeah. and I just assumed
there'd be more of them.
that they'd just keep coming.
I never imagined
you'd stop loving me.
- Hi.
- Hey.
Hi. folks. We're starting
a mandatory evacuation.
I'm sorry. what?
The winds shifted overnight. The
fire's headed towards the canyon.
- Shit.
- It's only a few miles away now
and it's burning quickly.
- You have to leave.
- You mean. like. right now?
Yes. and if you have a car.
there are a few people making
their way down the main road on foot.
We're asking people with
any extra room to pick them up.
Okay. yeah. sure.
- We'll see you down there.
- Yeah.
Um...
Okay. what...? Should we just do...
Get some water bottles or something?
Or. uh...
Do you have a fire
extinguisher? Is that a stupid idea?
What about Whitney's
birth certificate?
You know what? Fuck it.
There are other ways
to get a birth certificate.
Come on.
Put your shoes on.
What are you doing?
- I can't go.
- What?
- I'm not going.
- What are you talking about?
I don't know what
to take. Helen.
Nothing. Take nothing. I
mean. we don't have any time.
Well. I can't just leave
it here. What if it burns?
So. let it burn.
It's all just stuff.
It's not just stuff.
It's all I've got.
- Noah.
- Helen. you don't understand.
You have the kids. I don't.
They don't want anything
to do with me anymore.
This is all I've got left.
Everything that happened.
it's here. it's all this...
photo albums and letters and...
I can't just leave it. I can't.
Okay. Fine. we'll put
it all in the fucking car.
Let's just go. No.
I'm not leaving here...
No. You go. I'm staying.
Just fucking go. Helen!
What are you doing here anyway?
- What do you mean?
- Why did you come here?
I... Because... to find
the birth certificate.
Well. you could've just
called me. told me to look for it.
I did call you. I called you
twice and you didn't answer.
- No. I think Whitney's right.
- I think you have...
I think you have some weird
codependency with me or some obsession.
I don't know what
it is. It's not right.
Are you serious right now?
It's not appropriate. Helen.
I'm not your husband anymore.
You shouldn't be here.
I hope you burn.
- You guys want a ride?
- That would be great. thank you.
All right. get in.
All right. I got it.
- Thank you.
- Yeah.
Where's the... Ah.
Okay. let's go.
I'm Anna. This is John.
Thank you again.
Our car broke
down the other day.
I was gonna fix it this morning.
but my wife is so pregnant...
- Thank you. seriously.
- It's gonna be okay.
This car was built to
withstand a chemical attack.
so it's gonna be okay.
You all right? I think there's
some water back there in the door.
What's that noise?
What's happening?
Oh. my God.
Where is the apocalypse button?
How do you survive
chemical warfare in this car?
It was your fucking
idea to move here. John.
I wanted to live in Marina
del Rey. but you were like.
"Let's move to Topanga. That
way nobody will bother us."
I like when people bother us.
I like having people around.
We're about to have a
baby. for Christ's sakes.
Yeah. I know.
So maybe it's time
for you to get over
your fucking social anxiety.
take your Xanax.
and face the world.
It's not just you anymore.
There's three of us now.
Oh. great.
Excuse me. officer.
Would you please roll
up the window. please?
There's too much smoke.
Look. I'm gonna take care of
you. okay? Of you and Peanut.
I promised that I
would and I will.
You've been doing a real
bang-up job of it so far.
Look. the fire is not
my fault. Anna. okay?
- I didn't set it.
- I didn't say you fucking set it. John.
I said we shouldn't have been
here in the fucking first place.
Okay. you guys. I'm
sorry to interrupt. okay.
but this is not
helping. all right?
I know you're scared.
but screaming at each
other is just a waste of time.
and it's just a waste of energy
and it's gonna dehydrate you.
All right. you're
gonna be parents.
You're a team now. you
have to remember that.
What does this do?
Bingo. Okay.
Okay. we can relax.
Just have to wait for
this traffic to get moving.
♪ There's no saving anything ♪
♪ Now we're swallowing
The shine of the sun ♪
♪ There's no saving anything ♪
♪ How we swallow the sun ♪
♪ But I won't be no runaway ♪
It's moving incredibly quickly
and at zero percent contained.
it's still considered a
very dangerous situation.
The Santa Ana winds
died down last night.
but they're expected to
pick back up this afternoon.
which could mean more evacuations
in Los Angeles and Ventura Counties.
- Now back to you. Molly.
- Thanks. Charles.
We go now to Suzie Lee.
who's live with a member of our
brave Los Angeles Fire Department.
with some advice for people
based on recent experience.
Suzie.
Thanks. Molly. I'm
here with Dan Foster.
Dan. you've faced
this sort of thing before.
What advice would you
give people in this situation?
Well. these things
are unpredictable. uh.
but I guess something my captain told
me years ago has always stayed with me.
He said. in
circumstances like these.
"Movement is life."
If you move. you live.
If you stay. you die.
So if they're telling you
to leave. people. leave.
Don't wait. just go.
Fuck.
Hi. it's Whitney.
Leave a message.
Whit. I. uh...
Why don't you tell
me how it began?
Oh. it was so long
ago. who remembers?
We're hoping that
you do. Ms. Bailey.
It all began on a
dark and stormy night.
Oh. God. no.
I'm kidding. Please.
don't write that down.
Do you remember seeing
him for the first time?
Yeah.
Do you remember
what you thought?
Ms. Bailey?
No. but I remember he
was holding his daughter.
Look. I can't really tell
you what I was thinking.
That first year. everything
was still such a blur.
But I do remember the
sun was really bright.
like. unusually strong
for so early in the season.
There was no place to hide.
I liked this one spot
by the lighthouse.
The waves out there seemed
even angrier than I was.
How old were you when it began?
I was 31 years old.
I remember promising
myself I'd get to 35.
I'd make it through till then.
And if nothing had changed.
well. then I had
tried hard enough.
Oh. Alison.
I'm so sorry.
Wish I could go back and...
Mr. Solloway. hi.
Thanks for coming in.
Not like I had much of a choice.
Well. we'll try not to take
up too much of your time.
So. can you tell us a bit
about who you were back then?
Mr. Solloway?
Uh. I don't understand
the question.
What exactly do
you want to know?
How were you
feeling about your life?
Fine. Fine.
Can you say a little more?
Great. I was feeling
great. you know?
My children were healthy.
My wife was beautiful.
My life was pretty
fucking perfect.
I was a happy man back then.
I was proud of my family. my
first book had just come out. I...
Everything I'd promised myself I'd achieve
when I was a young man. I'd done it.
But...
Well. that's it.
There is no "but."
When I look back. I can't
tell you why it happened.
I was restless. sure.
but all men are restless.
But you give up
certain personal liberties
to live in a secure state.
On all levels.
National. municipal. marital.
I never had any problem with
that. I enjoyed being married.
When other men used to
complain about their wives.
I'd just think. "Poor
sucker made a bad choice."
I enjoyed being married.
When other men used to
complain about their wives.
I'd just think. "Poor
sucker made a bad choice."
- Hi.
- Hey. I saw your car.
I figured you were still here.
- I'm sorry. who are you?
- Uh. Ned. I'm from next door.
Been there for 50 years
and I am not leaving.
That's what I told the sheriff.
Well. I am. I'm
leaving right now.
Well. you can't. It's too late.
- What?
- I just spoke to the sheriff.
He said the fire is
coming down the canyon.
You can't get out.
- Really?
- You can't go.
- You got to shelter in place.
- What?
Yeah. clean your gutters.
rake your yard. hose
down your house.
put more wet towels
underneath your door.
fill up the bathtub.
And if you've got a basement.
well. that's even better.
But you can't go.
Topanga Canyon is
completely gridlocked.
How much time do we have?
Uh. maybe an hour.
Maybe two hours.
You know. they're trying to
move people into the fire station.
That is a fool's
errand if you ask me.
- I'm going. Good luck.
- Yeah. Nice house.
You can have it.
Stay with them. stay with them.
Helen?
- Don't even think about it. fucker!
- Ah. fuck.
Okay. Okay. fuck.
fine. Fuck you.
- Helen. open the window.
- No. there's too much smoke.
- We have to get out of here.
- What?
Open up. Come on. get out.
What the fuck. Noah?
The fire's coming. We
have to get out of here.
No. They just told us to stay.
- Who did?
- Some... this... guy.
He said the traffic's starting
to move down at the bottom.
- we just have to wait a few minutes.
- It's not true. The fire is an hour away.
We have to get out of here.
Don't worry. look. You
see this ridge right here?
I've hiked it before.
There's a fire road up here.
it goes down to the ocean.
- We just have to get up there.
- Okay. what about them?
Who the fuck are they?
- I don't know. I picked them up.
- They don't have a car.
They'll have to come with us.
- She's pregnant.
- Oh. fuck. look. Helen.
I don't know what to
say. but we have to go.
Movement is life. If we stay
here. we'll probably fucking die.
Fuck.
Forget the car. we got to go.
Ah. fuck.
- They coming?
- No. Now. what?
Here.
Take this. Follow me.
Okay. we need to get
down there. cross the ravine.
- and hike up the other side.
- That's miles.
It's not. it's okay.
We can do it.
- No. No way.
- Helen...
I know you're scared.
but you got to trust me.
Shit.
All right?
- Is this how we're gonna die?
- Probably not.
Jesus. I don't want to die.
Neither do I. so
let's just keep going.
You seemed pretty
resigned to it three hours ago.
Yeah. I guess I was.
And?
Why? You disappointed?
What happened?
- Ah. you'll think I'm nuts.
- Try me.
I listened to the recordings
of the depositions that
Alison and I gave to Jeffries.
Yeah?
I don't know. it was just...
It was just hearing my own
voice from back then and...
it reminded me of
something I used to know.
What?
How to be happy.
Eh. you think I'm crazy.
I keep thinking about
what Whitney said.
that her worst fear is
really turning into me.
- She was upset. She didn't mean it.
- No. she absolutely meant it.
Said I was codependent.
If Whitney turns
out anything like you.
she should count
herself fucking lucky.
I don't know. maybe she's
right. Maybe I am a pathetic.
desperate enabler.
I've never been able to
stand on my own two feet.
You're not.
Well. thank you. but I'm not
sure I can trust your opinion.
Well. what about what
she said about me?
What'd she say?
That I burn through
people. that I...
use them up and discard them.
Think she's right about that?
You want the truth?
Yeah. I know.
- You do?
- Yeah. of course I do.
Well. why do you do it?
Wish I knew.
I always thought it was because
you were so deeply insecure.
you were afraid if you stayed
with someone long enough.
they'd find out how
inadequate you are.
Thanks.
I know it sounds harsh. but we're
basically flirting with death here. right?
Oh. fuck.
I mean. I might not
get another chance to...
Helen. wait.
Oh. shit.
- I guess we climb down.
- Oh. my God.
We can't hike back.
That's not an option.
Yeah. but I can't
climb down that.
- I mean. I can't.
- It's not that far.
Oh. God.
Okay. Okay. look.
How about I go first
- and find a way down?
- No.
And then. if I fall. at least
the kids will have you.
- Oh. my God. no! Wait.
- No. no.
- What? We'll just wait!
- But if I make it. I'll make it.
I'll make it. okay?
And I'll guide you down.
And then if you
fall. I'll catch you.
- I'll crush you. That's insane.
- You're okay.
I mean. it's idiotic. It's just... There's
got to be another way out of here
if we just hike back to...
Oh. my God. Noah!
Shit. Just follow me.
Noah! Noah!
Noah!
I'm okay. I'm okay.
Okay. your turn.
Helen?
Come on. you can do this.
No. I'm good.
You should just go get help
and come back and get me.
Helen. you can't just sit
there. That's not an option.
I think it is.
You have to trust me.
Why would I trust you?
Every time I trust you.
something terrible happens.
Helen. please.
The kids... The kids need you.
I need you.
We can't do this without you.
Please come down.
Oh. fuck.
Okay. that's
great! That's great.
You got it.
Go on. that's it.
That's it. You
got it. you got it.
Okay. there's a hold
just a few inches down.
Test it first!
- Oh. my God.
- Ah. fuck!
Oh. are you okay?
Yeah. I'm fine.
- I'm stuck.
- No. you're not.
There's a foothold just
below the one you just tested.
I can't reach it.
Yes. you can. but you have to let go
of your right hand and bend your knee.
Where's this foot?
Shit. okay.
That's it.
It's like two inches below
where you want it to be.
Helen. you can't just freeze.
You have to keep going.
Movement is life.
You know what?
Could you please fucking stop
mansplaining to me right now?
I'm not mansplaining. I'm...
Look. you're hanging
from a fucking rock face
and you might die.
I-I'm just trying to help.
I am not gonna fucking
die. and the only reason
I'm hanging from a rock
face is because of you.
Because you don't plan.
You don't think ahead.
You just do what you want and you
don't think about the consequences.
- I don't think that's fair.
- And another thing.
What the fuck is up with this
"movement is life" bullshit?
That is just something
that men say.
Oh.
"I couldn't stay with my wife.
I had to leave my
family because..."
"movement is life."
It's such self-serving hogwash.
Ooh! Oh. my gosh.
Ooh.
Nice work.
You can hit me if you want to.
Helen.
Look.
Oh. my God.
We did it.
Come on. Let's go.
- Is that the ravine?
- Yeah.
Now we just have to
go all the way back up.
So we were gonna have
a buffet 'cause it's cheaper.
but it's gonna be impossible
to keep the food warm
- in those weather conditions.
- Isn't the tent heated?
Yeah. but it's probably
gonna be below freezing.
so I think maybe we
should just get 'em to plate it
and then cancel the steak.
Half their friends
are vegan anyway.
I can't believe
you did all that.
- What?
- You planned the whole wedding.
You want to know a secret?
I really enjoyed it.
I'll talk to her. I'll get
her to change her mind.
No. no. don't. don't.
Don't. It's what she
wants. and I don't want to...
Just... just let it be.
Can I ask you something
I don't understand?
Of course.
I don't understand how you can
be so compassionate sometimes
and sometimes so cruel.
I mean. we all have our
darkness and our bad qualities.
but with you. the...
Dichotomy is extreme?
Yes.
Yeah. I've asked myself
the same question.
I don't know. I thought
about my childhood.
My mother was always dying
and my father was never there.
and when he was.
he was so angry...
I just wanted to be
somewhere else.
Someone else. And then...
And then. I got to college
and I met you. and...
and you looked at
me with fresh eyes
and you told me how
much potential I had. and...
that I was gonna
be this great artist.
I remember thinking to
myself. I actually said to myself.
"Don't get caught.
Don't let her see the
cracks. and you'll be okay."
- Really?
- Yeah. Really.
And I'm sorry. I...
That's no way to begin a
relationship. but I know that now.
You can't lie your way
through a marriage.
hiding from the one person who
knows you better than anyone else. and...
resenting her when
she starts to figure it out.
And then hating her
for loving you anyway.
Because what kind
of an idiot must she be
if she can't see what
a loser you really are?
That's what I did to you. and
I put my self-hatred onto you.
And I'm really fucking sorry.
I was lying. too.
No. you weren't. You're the
most honest person I know.
No. I was.
I mean. I tried to make
you think I was this cool girl.
this cool. easygoing person.
- You were never easygoing.
- Well...
You know. you know what I mean.
Independent.
You know. autonomous.
- You sure had me convinced.
- I know I did.
But I wasn't...
I really wasn't even a person then. I
was like a performance of a person.
And all I really wanted
was someone to save me
from Bruce and Margaret.
And then what I did
to you was so unfair
because I brought
you into my family
with the promise of
all of this opportunity.
and I knew my dad would
be threatened by you.
And then I just set you
up to be the obstacle.
like. to just take the
heat. fight the fights.
I mean. I never stood up for you
against them. I said I did. but I didn't.
No. you didn't.
So I'm sorry. too.
Well. okay.
- Can I ask you another question?
- Anything.
If you had never met Alison.
if we had stayed in the city
and not gone to my parents' house
that summer like you wanted to.
do you think we
would still be together?
I mean. would I ever
have been enough for you?
Which answer do you want?
The truth.
It was me who wasn't
enough. It wasn't you. I mean...
I said to Jeffries I had no idea
why it happened. but that's not true.
I just felt so bad
about myself back then.
I'd been writing that
first book for what.
seven years. eight years?
And then. when it
came out. nobody read it.
I thought I'd never get from
under the thumb of your father.
Everything I touched
turned mediocre.
I wanted to be
noticed by someone.
Make an impact. Be a hero.
Then along came this girl and
she seemed desperate to be saved.
It was more than
that. You loved her.
Plenty of people fall in
love outside their marriage.
Not everybody leaves.
No. you're right.
I did love her.
I was crazy about her.
but that's not why I left.
I was afraid I was gonna die
without ever having
done anything in my life.
Now. I've done plenty. it
turns out I'm gonna die anyway.
Not today.
No. Not today.
- Can I have some water?
- Yeah.
I think that's the
fire road there.
I think we're gonna be okay.
Can I ask you something now?
Seems fair enough.
What was it like for you?
- What?
- My affair.
The divorce.
I've never really asked you.
Well. it was fucking awful.
Tell me.
I couldn't take a deep
breath for two years.
I cried everywhere.
Cried in my car. cried on
a run. cried in the shower.
The minute I was alone
for two seconds. I cried.
I couldn't sleep.
I was afraid to be alone
in the house with the kids.
I was afraid...
what might happen if something
happened to one of them.
that I wouldn't be able
to handle it on my own.
Some of our friends were awful.
You know. the people
who loved us together.
said I shouldn't let you go so easily.
that I should fight for you more. as if...
I had any choice in the matter.
As if it was my decision.
And then later. when I
had to see you with her
and compare
myself to her. and...
I used to think I looked good.
You know.
And then. suddenly. I
just couldn't look at myself
in the mirror anymore 'cause
all I saw was my wrinkles
and my stomach after
having had four kids and...
I would just think.
"How could you not
know how ugly you are?
Of course he left you."
- Oh. Helen...
- Don't pity me.
- I wasn't. I'm not. I'm...
- You asked me what it was like.
That's what it was like.
I got through it.
I made it through. and
I'm more proud of that
than anything I've ever done in my
life. so please don't fucking pity me.
I wasn't pitying you.
You know. the one thing
that still gets me. really.
it's just that I used to think
when we had no money
and we had all these
kids. and we were fighting.
I would look at you
sometimes and I would think.
"One day. this is
gonna be worth it.
One day. I'm gonna dance
with him at Whitney's wedding.
And we will have built...
an amazing thing together.
Family."
That's the thing
that still hurts.
if you want to know the truth. that
you just left during the hard parts.
and we never had a
chance to celebrate.
We made it.
Can I sit...
- Can we sit down for a minute?
- Sure.
Yeah. it looks like the road
goes for about another mile.
then it hits civilization.
Noah?
- Noah!
- Fuck.
Oh. fuck.
Oh. no. this is bad.
- Shit. Did it get you?
- It's. like. really. really. really bad.
- Yes.
- Oh. fuck.
You're gonna be okay.
- It's all right.
- I can't believe we hiked out of that fire
and I'm gonna die anyway.
I can't get a signal.
We're gonna get
you to the hospital.
No shit.
No. stop! You got to stop.
- Sit down.
- Why? I can walk.
You can't! You have to be still!
- Why?
- Because the more you move.
the quicker the venom
will get to your heart.
Oh. my God.
- Oh. my God. Oh. my God.
- Just be calm!
- How?
- Just fucking calm.
Here. I got you.
Here. come here.
You be calm.
Come on.
Stay awake.
Come on. Come on.
You're okay. Just...
Oh. yeah. Oh. yeah.
Help! I need help! Hey.
Someone needs to
see us immediately.
You need to fill out these forms.
The triage nurse will be right with you.
No. uh. she... Hey. she
needs to see a doctor.
We need a gurney here
now. Tell me what happened.
Uh. I saw the snake
myself. It was a rattlesnake.
- I know it is.
- Let's get her back.
You're okay. You're okay.
You're in the hospital
now. You're okay.
Let's move.
Sir. you need to go back to reception
and give them her information.
But I'm...
- Just fill this out.
- Thank you.
Mr. Solloway?
We've got her on some intense
pain medication so she can rest.
And we'll continue to
monitor her overnight
to see how her body reacts to
the anti-venom. but for now...
Yeah. her vitals look
good. She's stable.
- That's great. Thank you.
- Can I get you anything?
- No. I'm fine.
- Okay. the nurse will be by
- to check on you guys in an hour.
- Thank you.
Doctor Davis. call 4799.
Dr. Davis. call 4799.
As flames engulfed Topanga
Canyon earlier this evening.
residents were stuck in bumper-to-bumper
traffic trying to evacuate.
Though no numbers
have yet been reported.
as many as a hundred people
are thought to have perished
waiting in their cars.
Fire Chief Reynolds says
- the blaze just came through...
- Oh. my God.
So quickly. there was no
time to get them to safety.
Sheriff's deputies have
cordoned off the area
and residents are not allowed...
to return until the...
Hi. friend.
♪ The corn come out ♪
♪ You've led us on ♪
♪ Left me looking up ♪
♪ Down where the trees grow ♪
♪ Together ♪
♪ And the western path ♪
♪ Comes to an end ♪
♪ See the sign ♪
♪ It says clear weather ♪
♪ I'll meet you tonight ♪
♪ My friend ♪